# Health-Behaviour-in-School-aged-Children-HBSC (In Progress) 

**Purpose:** To predict certain health outcomes from social media use (SMU) and attitudes towards social media in children aged 11-15 years old. 

**Dataset:** The data used in this investigation was provided by Atle Jastad a member of the Health Behaviour in School aged children (HBSC) initiative which surveys ~280,000 kids aged 11-15 across over 50 countries. The survey aims to gain insight into adolescent health and well-being by extracting information regarding social determinants of health. The 2017/2018 rendition of the survey collects data on 120 variables of which over 100 are survey questions. This survey consists of 48 countries which partook in answering questions in the primary survey, but other specialized questionnaires also exist of which certain countries participated. 

**Methods:** Of the 48 countries studied in the 2017/2018 survey, 18 partook in a specialized survey regarding sleep health. This infromation was obtained from a 2023 study conducted by Boniel-Nissim et al. which aimed to identify associations between adolescent SMU and Sleep patterns. Thus, to filter the dataset I decided to choose the same 18 countries used in their study. Unfortunately, I could not obtain the raw data from the specialized survey on sleep health. The main survey asks 16 questions regarding SMU. Of these 4 asked about frequency of SMU, 3 asked about preferences regarding SMU versus in-person social interactions and 9 asking about behaviour in relation to social media. Using the responses from these questions the Government of Canada using the Social Media Disorder Scale (SMDS) where able to classify individual SMU. For the 9 questions regarding behaviour, if an individual answer Yes to 6/9 of those questions they were considered a "Problematic Social Media User" (PSMU), Yes to 2-5/9 of those questions was considered moderate risk of having PSMU, and Yes to less than 1/9 was considered low risk. Health outcomes will be placed into different categories based on Government classification. There are 4 questions regarding psychological health complaints of which 1 of them asks about sleep. For the purpose of this investigation, the sleep question will be on its own in the "Sleep" category, while the other three questions will go into the "Psychological Health" category. 4 questions asked specifically about physical health symptoms while 1 asked directly about health. These questions will fall under the "Physical Health" category. The final question of interest was about student life satisfaction. 

**Goals:** Thus, this investigation will compare SMU with the 4 categories: psychological health, physical health, sleep and life satisfaction. The goal is to identify if there are associations between SMU in adolescents and the health outcomes listed above. This information will then be used to train an algorithm to predict individual health outcomes based on SMU data.
